.TH HOSTS3D 1 "13 Apr 11"
.SH NAME
hosts3d \- 3D real-time network monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hosts3d \fR[\fB\-f\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Hosts3D
is a 3D real-time network monitor, displaying hosts and packet
traffic.  Features include support for multiple sensors, analysis of
packets to gather hostnames and services, configurable layout of
subnetworks, recording/replaying of packet traffic, and the ability to
filter packets by hosts, protocol or port.
.TP
.B \-f
Display full screen.
.P
Press H key in Hosts3D to show help.
.SH "DATA FILES"
Created in directory ".hosts3d/".
.TP 16
.I controls.txt
Controls
.TP 16
.I settings-hsd
Settings
.TP 16
.I 0network.hnl
Network Layout On-Exit
.TP 16
.I 1network.hnl
Network Layout 1
.TP 16
.I 2network.hnl
Network Layout 2
.TP 16
.I 3network.hnl
Network Layout 3
.TP 16
.I 4network.hnl
Network Layout 4
.TP 16
.I netpos.txt
CIDR Notation Net Position/Colour
.TP 16
.I traffic.hpt
Packet Traffic Record
.TP 16
.I tmp-hinfo-hsd
Temporary Information
.TP 16
.I tmp-netpos-hsd
Temporary Net Positions
.TP 16
.I tmp-flist-hsd
Temporary Working Directory File List
.SH "NET POSITIONS"
If a host is not a member of any net position entries, it is placed in
the Grey Zone.  If a host is a member of multiple net position
entries, the first entry is used.  Line format for net position
entries is "pos net x-position y-position z-position colour",
.br
eg. "pos 123.123.123.123/32 10 0 \-10 green".
.P
.I Positions:
.TP 12
Grey/Red
positive x-position
.TP 12
Blue/Green
negative x-position
.TP 12
Up
positive y-position
.TP 12
Down
negative y-position
.TP 12
Grey/Blue
positive z-position
.TP 12
Red/Green
negative z-position
.P
.I Colours:
.P
none (where multiple colours are used), default (grey), orange,
yellow, fluro, green, mint, aqua, blue, purple, violet and hold (place
hosts in same position).
.SH "START/STOP LOCAL hsen"
If sudo is required to start/stop a local hsen, the user starting
Hosts3D must be in /etc/sudoers.  The default command to stop a local
hsen is "killall hsen", which will kill all hsen processes.
.SH NOTES
Firewall configuration: hsen talks to Hosts3D via UDP port 10111.  If
hsen is running and Hosts3D is not, ICMP Port Unreachable (UDP port
10111) may be generated.  Hosts3D logs to syslog, check when
troubleshooting.  By default hosts are added from packet source IP
address, activate Add Destination Hosts to also add from destination
IP address.  Anomalies are a new host or host service.  Using the menu
options to move/arrange a few thousand hosts may take a few minutes.
Deleting hosts, using the menu options to move/arrange hosts, or
clearing/restoring a net layout may affect packet recording.  Clicking
a multiple host object will cycle through selecting hosts within.
Data files from 32-bit version are incompatible with 64-bit version
and vice versa.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
hsen(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Del Castle.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <hosts3d@gmail.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2006-2011  Del Castle
.br
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.br
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
