.TH HSEN 1 "13 Apr 11"
.SH NAME
hsen \- hosts3d sensor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsen \fIid interface/file \fR[\fIdestination\fR] [\fB\-p\fR] [\fB\-d\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hsen
is a packet capture agent which reads and sends packet header
information to Hosts3D, locally or remotely.  hsen also equates
hostname to IP by reading DNS packets (UDP type A class IN standard
query response).  Multiple sensors can send information to multiple
computers running Hosts3D on the same subnet via broadcast.
.TP 13
.I id
Identify packets from a specific hsen when multiple exist (1-255).
.TP 13
.I interface
Listen on interface (eth0, eth1, ppp0, wlan0, etc.); or
.TP 13
.I file
Read packets from pcap file.  Standard input is used if file is "\-".
.TP 13
.I destination
Hosts3D IP or broadcast address (default localhost).
.TP
.B \-p
Enable promiscuous mode (default disable).
.TP
.B \-d
Run as daemon (default disable).
.SH NOTES
Firewall configuration: hsen talks to Hosts3D via UDP port 10111.  If
hsen is running and Hosts3D is not, ICMP Port Unreachable (UDP port
10111) may be generated.  To capture packets from some interfaces, or
in promiscuous mode, you may have to start hsen as root (sudo).  hsen
logs to syslog, check when troubleshooting.  Support only for IPv4.
IP headers with options are ignored.  Support for packets with
optionless GRE or VLAN 802.1Q encapsulation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
hosts3d(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Del Castle.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <hosts3d@gmail.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2006-2011  Del Castle
.br
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.br
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
